README.md, before:

# Localize

[![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/andresilvagomez/Localize/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/andresilvagomez/Localize?branch=master)
[![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/Localize.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/Localize)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/andresilvagomez/Localize.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/andresilvagomez/Localize)
[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-Swift%204.1-orange.svg)](https://swift.org)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andresilvagomez/Localize/master/LICENSE)
[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vsouza/awesome-ios)

Localize is a framework written in swift to help you localize your projects. It supports both storyboards and strings.

![Localize Storyboard](https://www.dropbox.com/s/t5uij0bg0tgignu/localize.gif?raw=1)
___

- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- [x] Storyboard with IBInspectable
- [x] Keep the File.strings files your app already uses
- [x] Support Apple strings and JSON Files
- [x] Change your app language without changing device language
- [x] Localize your Storyboards without extra files or/and ids

## Requirements

- iOS 9.0+
- Xcode 8.0+
- Swift 3.0+

## Installation

### CocoaPods

[CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) is a dependency manager for Cocoa projects. You can install it with the following command:

```bash
$ gem install cocoapods
```

> CocoaPods 1.1.0+ is required to build Localize 1.+.

To integrate Localize into your Xcode project using CocoaPods, specify it in your `Podfile`:

```ruby
source 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git'
platform :ios, '9.0'
use_frameworks!

target '<Your Target Name>' do
    pod 'Localize' , '~> 2.0.5'
end
```

Then, run the following command:

```bash
$ pod install
```

### Carthage

[Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage) is a decentralized dependency manager that builds your dependencies and provides you with binary frameworks.

You can install Carthage with [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) using the following command:

```bash
$ brew update
$ brew install carthage
```

To integrate Localize into your Xcode project using Carthage, specify it in your `Cartfile`:

```
github "andresilvagomez/Localize"
```

Run `carthage update` to build the framework and drag the built `Localize.framework` into your Xcode project.

### Swift Pacakge Manager

The [Swift Pacakage Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/) is a tool for automating the distribution of Swift code and is integrated into the swift compiler.

Once you have your Swift package set up, adding Localize as a dependency is as easy as adding it to the dependencies value of your Package.swift.

```swift
dependencies: [
    .Package(url: "https://github.com/andresilvagomez/Localize.git")
]
```

---

## Usage

Add ```.localize()``` for any ```String``` if you want localize.

You don't need import anything in your code, Localize uses extensions to localize your Strings.

```swift

textLabel.text = "hello.world".localize()
// Or
textLabel.text = "hello.world".localized

```

You can decide if you want use JSON or Apple Strings, we support both, if you decide to use JSON please follow these instructions.

### Create JSON file

Please create a JSON file in your code with this rule:

```
{your file name}-{your lang code}.json
```

For example

- lang-en.json
- lang-es.json
- lang-fr.json

Example JSON File

```json
{
    "hello" : {
        "world" : "Hello world!",
        "name" : "Hello %!"
    },
    "values" : "Hello % we are %, see you soon",
    "username" : "My username is :username",
    "navigation.title" : ""
}
```

### Create String file

If you decide use Apple strings, please follow [Apple Localization Guide](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPInternational/LocalizingYourApp/LocalizingYourApp.html) to create strings file.

String file example

```

"hello.world" = "Hello world!";

"name" = "Hello %";

"values" = "Hello everyone my name is % and I'm %, see you soon";

"username" = "My username is :username";

"level.one.two.three" = "This is a multilevel key";

"the.same.lavel" = "This is a localized in the same level";

"enlish" = "This key only exist in english file.";

```

Whatever way you choose to, use that methods.

### Localize strings

```swift

print( "hello.world".localize() )

// Hello world!

// Also you can use

print( "hello.world".localized )

```

### Localize strings, replacing text
Localize use `%` identifier to replace the text

```swift

print( "hello.name".localize(value: "everyone") )

// Hello everyone!

```

### Localize strings, replacing many texts
Localize use `%` identifier to replace the text

```swift

print( "values".localize(values: "everyone", "Software Developer") )

// Hello everyone we are Software Developer, see you soon

```

### Localize strings, replacing dictionary values
Localize use `:yourid` to search your id in JSON File

```swift

print( "username".localize(dictionary: ["username": "Localize"]) )

// My username is Localize

```

### Localize strings, using other files.
If you decide use different files use methods with ```tableName``` in the end of each method, for example.


```swift

print( "hello.world".localize(tableName: "Other") )

print( "hello.name".localize(value: "everyone", tableName: "Errors") )

print( "values".localize(values: "everyone", "Software Developer", tableName: "YourFileName") )

print( "username".localize(dictionary: ["username": "Localize"], tableName: "YourFileName") )

```
---

### We are amazing with storyboards.

You don't need to import anything in your code, Localize uses extensions to localize your UIView components

![Localize Storyboard](https://www.dropbox.com/s/d2ydhozqdetd1oo/Screenshot%202017-08-07%2023.12.12.png?raw=1)

- lang-en.json

```json
{
    "navigation" : {
        "title" : "Localize"
    },
    "app" : {
        "label" : "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Aenean commodo ligula eget dolor. Aenean massa. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Donec quam felis, ultricies nec, pellentesque eu, pretium quis, sem. Nulla consequat massa quis enim. Donec pede justo, fringilla vel, aliquet nec, vulputate eget, arcu. In enim justo, rhoncus ut, imperdiet a, venenatis vitae, justo. Nullam dictum felis eu pede mollis pretium.",
        "textfield" : "Write some here."
    }
}
```

You can use extensions for

- ``` UIBarButtonItem ```
- ``` UIButton ```
- ``` UILabel ```
- ``` UINavigationItem ```
- ``` UISearchBar ```
- ``` UISegmentedControl ```
- ``` UITabBarItem ```
- ``` UITextField ```
- ``` UITextView ```

---

## Updating language
When you change a language, automatically all views update your content to new language

```swift

Localize.update(language: "fr")

```

To make this work with strings, you need to implement a notification

```swift

override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    NotificationCenter.default.addObserver(self, selector: #selector(localize), name: NSNotification.Name(LanguageChangeNotification), object: nil)   
}

public func localize() {
    yourLabel.text = "app.names".localize(values: "mark", "henrry", "peater")
    otherLabel.text = "app.username".localize(value: "Your username")
}

```

Implementing internal acction to change a language

```swift

@IBAction func updateLanguage(_ sender: Any) {
    let actionSheet = UIAlertController(title: nil, message: "app.update.language".localize(), preferredStyle: UIAlertControllerStyle.actionSheet)
    for language in Localize.availableLanguages {
        let displayName = Localize.displayNameForLanguage(language)
        let languageAction = UIAlertAction(title: displayName, style: .default, handler: {
            (alert: UIAlertAction!) -> Void in
            Localize.update(language: language)
            })
        actionSheet.addAction(languageAction)
    }
    let cancelAction = UIAlertAction(title: "Cancel", style: UIAlertActionStyle.cancel, handler: {
        (alert: UIAlertAction) -> Void in
        })
    actionSheet.addAction(cancelAction)
    self.present(actionSheet, animated: true, completion: nil)
}

```

### Config
This not is necesary, only if you need different results.

```swift
// AppDelegate.swift

import Localize

func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplicationLaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {

    let localize = Localize.shared
    // Set your localize provider.
    localize.update(provider: .json)
    // Set your file name
    localize.update(fileName: "lang")
    // Set your default languaje.
    localize.update(defaultLanguage: "fr")
    // If you want change a user language, different to default in phone use thimethod.
    localize.update(language: "en")
    // If you want remove storaged languaje use
    localize.resetLanguage()
    // The used language
    print(localize.currentLanguage)
    // List of aviable languajes
    print(localize.availableLanguages)

    // Or you can use static methods for all          
    Localize.update(fileName: "lang")
    Localize.update(defaultLanguage: "fr")
    Localize.update(language: "en-DE")

    return true
}

```

---

## Credits

[Andres Silva Gomez](https://github.com/andresilvagomez)

Special thanks to [Benjamin Erhart](https://github.com/tladesignz)

## License

Localize is released under the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.

Commit message:

added notes for app store release

README.md, after:

# Localize

[![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/andresilvagomez/Localize/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/andresilvagomez/Localize?branch=master)
[![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/Localize.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/Localize)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/andresilvagomez/Localize.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/andresilvagomez/Localize)
[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-Swift%204.1-orange.svg)](https://swift.org)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andresilvagomez/Localize/master/LICENSE)
[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vsouza/awesome-ios)

Localize is a framework written in swift to help you localize your projects. It supports both storyboards and strings.

![Localize Storyboard](https://www.dropbox.com/s/t5uij0bg0tgignu/localize.gif?raw=1)
___

- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Notes for your AppStore release](#release)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- [x] Storyboard with IBInspectable
- [x] Keep the File.strings files your app already uses
- [x] Support Apple strings and JSON Files
- [x] Change your app language without changing device language
- [x] Localize your Storyboards without extra files or/and ids

## Requirements

- iOS 9.0+
- Xcode 8.0+
- Swift 3.0+

## Installation

### CocoaPods

[CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) is a dependency manager for Cocoa projects. You can install it with the following command:

```bash
$ gem install cocoapods
```

> CocoaPods 1.1.0+ is required to build Localize 1.+.

To integrate Localize into your Xcode project using CocoaPods, specify it in your `Podfile`:

```ruby
source 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git'
platform :ios, '9.0'
use_frameworks!

target '<Your Target Name>' do
    pod 'Localize' , '~> 2.0.5'
end
```

Then, run the following command:

```bash
$ pod install
```

### Carthage

[Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage) is a decentralized dependency manager that builds your dependencies and provides you with binary frameworks.

You can install Carthage with [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) using the following command:

```bash
$ brew update
$ brew install carthage
```

To integrate Localize into your Xcode project using Carthage, specify it in your `Cartfile`:

```
github "andresilvagomez/Localize"
```

Run `carthage update` to build the framework and drag the built `Localize.framework` into your Xcode project.

### Swift Pacakge Manager

The [Swift Pacakage Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/) is a tool for automating the distribution of Swift code and is integrated into the swift compiler.

Once you have your Swift package set up, adding Localize as a dependency is as easy as adding it to the dependencies value of your Package.swift.

```swift
dependencies: [
    .Package(url: "https://github.com/andresilvagomez/Localize.git")
]
```

---

## Usage

Add ```.localize()``` for any ```String``` if you want localize.

You don't need import anything in your code, Localize uses extensions to localize your Strings.

```swift

textLabel.text = "hello.world".localize()
// Or
textLabel.text = "hello.world".localized

```

You can decide if you want use JSON or Apple Strings, we support both, if you decide to use JSON please follow these instructions.

### Create JSON file

Please create a JSON file in your code with this rule:

```
{your file name}-{your lang code}.json
```

For example

- lang-en.json
- lang-es.json
- lang-fr.json

Example JSON File

```json
{
    "hello" : {
        "world" : "Hello world!",
        "name" : "Hello %!"
    },
    "values" : "Hello % we are %, see you soon",
    "username" : "My username is :username",
    "navigation.title" : ""
}
```

### Create String file

If you decide use Apple strings, please follow [Apple Localization Guide](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPInternational/LocalizingYourApp/LocalizingYourApp.html) to create strings file.

String file example

```

"hello.world" = "Hello world!";

"name" = "Hello %";

"values" = "Hello everyone my name is % and I'm %, see you soon";

"username" = "My username is :username";

"level.one.two.three" = "This is a multilevel key";

"the.same.lavel" = "This is a localized in the same level";

"enlish" = "This key only exist in english file.";

```

Whatever way you choose to, use that methods.

### Localize strings

```swift

print( "hello.world".localize() )

// Hello world!

// Also you can use

print( "hello.world".localized )

```

### Localize strings, replacing text
Localize use `%` identifier to replace the text

```swift

print( "hello.name".localize(value: "everyone") )

// Hello everyone!

```

### Localize strings, replacing many texts
Localize use `%` identifier to replace the text

```swift

print( "values".localize(values: "everyone", "Software Developer") )

// Hello everyone we are Software Developer, see you soon

```

### Localize strings, replacing dictionary values
Localize use `:yourid` to search your id in JSON File

```swift

print( "username".localize(dictionary: ["username": "Localize"]) )

// My username is Localize

```

### Localize strings, using other files.
If you decide use different files use methods with ```tableName``` in the end of each method, for example.


```swift

print( "hello.world".localize(tableName: "Other") )

print( "hello.name".localize(value: "everyone", tableName: "Errors") )

print( "values".localize(values: "everyone", "Software Developer", tableName: "YourFileName") )

print( "username".localize(dictionary: ["username": "Localize"], tableName: "YourFileName") )

```
---

### We are amazing with storyboards.

You don't need to import anything in your code, Localize uses extensions to localize your UIView components

![Localize Storyboard](https://www.dropbox.com/s/d2ydhozqdetd1oo/Screenshot%202017-08-07%2023.12.12.png?raw=1)

- lang-en.json

```json
{
    "navigation" : {
        "title" : "Localize"
    },
    "app" : {
        "label" : "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Aenean commodo ligula eget dolor. Aenean massa. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Donec quam felis, ultricies nec, pellentesque eu, pretium quis, sem. Nulla consequat massa quis enim. Donec pede justo, fringilla vel, aliquet nec, vulputate eget, arcu. In enim justo, rhoncus ut, imperdiet a, venenatis vitae, justo. Nullam dictum felis eu pede mollis pretium.",
        "textfield" : "Write some here."
    }
}
```

You can use extensions for

- ``` UIBarButtonItem ```
- ``` UIButton ```
- ``` UILabel ```
- ``` UINavigationItem ```
- ``` UISearchBar ```
- ``` UISegmentedControl ```
- ``` UITabBarItem ```
- ``` UITextField ```
- ``` UITextView ```

---

## Updating language
When you change a language, automatically all views update your content to new language

```swift

Localize.update(language: "fr")

```

To make this work with strings, you need to implement a notification

```swift

override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    NotificationCenter.default.addObserver(self, selector: #selector(localize), name: NSNotification.Name(LanguageChangeNotification), object: nil)   
}

public func localize() {
    yourLabel.text = "app.names".localize(values: "mark", "henrry", "peater")
    otherLabel.text = "app.username".localize(value: "Your username")
}

```

Implementing internal acction to change a language

```swift

@IBAction func updateLanguage(_ sender: Any) {
    let actionSheet = UIAlertController(title: nil, message: "app.update.language".localize(), preferredStyle: UIAlertControllerStyle.actionSheet)
    for language in Localize.availableLanguages {
        let displayName = Localize.displayNameForLanguage(language)
        let languageAction = UIAlertAction(title: displayName, style: .default, handler: {
            (alert: UIAlertAction!) -> Void in
            Localize.update(language: language)
            })
        actionSheet.addAction(languageAction)
    }
    let cancelAction = UIAlertAction(title: "Cancel", style: UIAlertActionStyle.cancel, handler: {
        (alert: UIAlertAction) -> Void in
        })
    actionSheet.addAction(cancelAction)
    self.present(actionSheet, animated: true, completion: nil)
}

```

### Config
This not is necesary, only if you need different results.

```swift
// AppDelegate.swift

import Localize

func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplicationLaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {

    let localize = Localize.shared
    // Set your localize provider.
    localize.update(provider: .json)
    // Set your file name
    localize.update(fileName: "lang")
    // Set your default languaje.
    localize.update(defaultLanguage: "fr")
    // If you want change a user language, different to default in phone use thimethod.
    localize.update(language: "en")
    // If you want remove storaged languaje use
    localize.resetLanguage()
    // The used language
    print(localize.currentLanguage)
    // List of aviable languajes
    print(localize.availableLanguages)

    // Or you can use static methods for all          
    Localize.update(fileName: "lang")
    Localize.update(defaultLanguage: "fr")
    Localize.update(language: "en-DE")

    return true
}

```

---

## Notes for your AppStore release

To make all languages you have localized your app for visible on the AppStore, you must add a language in the project's settings. 

1. For that, click on your project name in the left side bar. 
2. Then, choose project, instead of a target. 
3. At the bottom, under *Localizations*, press the + button & select a language you want to add
4. On prompt, uncheck all files Xcode wants to add localization for, but keep a single one, that you won't actually localize, such as your launch screen for instance.
    - if you need to localize all your files, I suggest adding a placeholder storyboard file that you'll then add to localization
5. Done! (You don't actually have to localize the placehodler file.) The AppStore will now show the new language in localizations for your app.

---

## Credits

[Andres Silva Gomez](https://github.com/andresilvagomez)

Special thanks to [Benjamin Erhart](https://github.com/tladesignz)

## License

Localize is released under the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
